6653 contenttype menu (#8032)
plone/volto: docs/configuration/component-registry.md

Reviewer: @sneridagh @pnicolli @davisagli I like the revisions on this page, as it improves grammar and readability. Would you please check it for technical accuracy?

Reviewer 2: Yeah they're technically fine, even if out of scope we might leave these. @sneridagh ?

Reviewer 3: ok for me. The additions are fine, although out of scope, yes.

Reviewer 3: In fact, the conditional lookup has a clear application, like the one in the ZCA that might be taken care into account.

Reviewer: Why is this `componentName="Toolbar"` instead of `componentName="Teaser"`, given all the foregoing code refers to the latter? I'm very confused. @sneridagh @pnicolli is this a mistake?

```suggestion
<Component componentName="Teaser" dependencies={[props.content['@type']]} {...props} />
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think it's a mistake, it makes sense for this to be `componentName="Teaser"`, I didn't notice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then make both components available.
They have the same registered name, but one is without, and the other is with dependencies.
```

Reviewer: I felt that this needed some further explanation. I'm not sure if it's correct, though. It's my best guess. Please correct as needed.

```suggestion
Then retrieve either one, depending on the use case.
The following example shows how to retrieve the `Teaser` component with a given content type value coming from the `content` prop.

If the prop is a `News Item`, then it will retrieve the `Teaser` component with its dependencies, in other words, `MyTeaserNewsItemComponent`.
For all other props, the default component `MyTeaserDefaultComponent` would be retrieved.
```

Author: I checked the implementation and the default (default referring to the component registered without dependencies) is NOT used, when the dependencies don't match. I updated this section of documentation accordingly.

Reviewer: *Now* it starts to make sense to my tiny dinosaur brain. Thanks for doing the extra work.

However, I would like either @pnicolli or @sneridagh to comment on this new code and change in narrative text, while ensuring it aligns with the intent of [Adapt components with dependencies](https://volto--8032.org.readthedocs.build/8032/configuration/component-registry.html#adapt-components-with-dependencies) by the original author.

Adaptation feels like a lot of effort for little benefit, and I don't understand why this is useful. Maybe we're missing something in the narrative or examples to explain?

Reviewer 3: @stevepiercy It's ok!!!

# Component registry

The {term}`configuration registry` includes a component registry for managing components globally.
In this registry, components can be registered given a unique component name.

> Any other add-on can then retrieve and use this component by searching the components name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any other add-on can then retrieve and use this component by searching for the component's name.
```

The key motivation behind the component registry is to simplify the process of customization.

> Existing components can be overwritten without {term}`shadowing` by registering a new component using the name of an existing component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing components can be overridden without {term}`shadowing` by registering a new component using the name of an existing component.
```

Since the component registry is globally available, this means that all code pointing to this component will now use the newly registered component instead.

> You can even have modifiers to the component registrations: dependencies. So you can "adapt" the call given an array of such dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, it's possible to modify the component registrations with a given array of dependencies.
```

# Component registry

The {term}`configuration registry` includes a component registry for managing components globally.
In this registry, you can register components given a unique component name.
Any other add-on can then retrieve and use this component by searching for the component's name.

The key motivation behind the component registry is to simplify the process of customization.
Existing components can be overridden without {term}`shadowing` by registering a new component using the name of an existing component.
Since the component registry is globally available, this means that all code pointing to this component will now use the newly registered component instead.

> Additionally, it's possible to modify the component registrations with a given array of dependencies.

Reviewer: On second reading, `dependencies` can be either a string or an array of strings, so let's not include that detail until the reader needs to think about it, specifically in the example further down the page.

```suggestion
Additionally, it's possible to modify the component registrations with dependencies.
```

Please notice that you are able to pass `props` down to the retrieved component.

## Adapt components with dependencies

Additionally, components can be registered with dependencies.

> This allows calling a component by its name and conditionally by its dependencies, according to the use case.

Reviewer: This is more accurate, I think. The component has a conditional in its registration, not the calling code.

```suggestion
This allows calling a component by its name and optionally by its dependencies, according to the use case.
```

> ## Adapting the component using `dependencies` array

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adapt components with dependencies
```

Components can also be conditionally registered by passing dependencies.

> To register a component with dependencies, either pass a string or an array of strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, components can be registered with dependencies.
This allows calling a component by its name and conditionally by its dependencies, according to the use case.

To register a component with dependencies, either pass a string or an array of strings.
```

For example, there might be a `Teaser` component that has a variation for the `News Item` content type.
The component is registered as such:

```js
import MyTeaserDefaultComponent from './MyTeaserDefaultComponent';
import MyTeaserNewsItemComponent from './MyTeaserNewsItemComponent';

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserDefaultComponent,
});

config.registerComponent({
    name: 'Teaser',
    component: MyTeaserNewsItemComponent,
    dependencies: 'News Item',
});
```

The following example shows how to retrieve the `Teaser` component with a given content type value coming from the `content` prop.
If the content type is a `News Item`, then it will retrieve the `Teaser` component registered with this dependency, in this case, `MyTeaserNewsItemComponent`.

```jsx
<Component componentName="Teaser" dependencies={[props.content['@type']]} {...props} />
```

However, if the content type is different from `News Item`, no component is rendered, because the registry does not automatically fall back to the `MyTeaserDefaultComponent` registered without dependencies.

> If the `MyTeaserDefaultComponent` should be rendered when the dependency is not `News Item`, a manual fallback mechanism is needed:

Reviewer: Minor thing, but let's adhere to typical RFC "should" and "must" terminology. "is needed" == "must", which would make the sentence inconsistent. I also think it's important to use "registered" for emphasis.

```suggestion
If the `MyTeaserDefaultComponent` should be rendered when the dependency is not `News Item`, a manual fallback mechanism should be registered as a conditional expression:
```

> ```jsx

Reviewer: Let's get fancy.

````suggestion
```{code-block} jsx
:emphasize-lines: 4
````
